**Beauty Sickness** describes the pervasive energy and effort that females divert to their appearance, which takes a toll on their cognitive resources, their self esteem, and often, their bank accounts, given how much money it takes to attempt to uphold the unattainable beauty standards of the modern age.

- "The gender difference in the experience of one's body extends beyond simple satisfaction or dissatisfaction. When researchers... interviewed dozens of British men and women, they found that women tended to view their body in a fragmented way. They described their body parts as a series of disappointments, punctuated with rare parts that were 'just okay.' Most women seem to have a catalogue of appearance complaints at the ready. Stomach too wobbly, thigh gap nonexistent, skin uneven, hair not shiny enough. Each part stands on its own, ready to be picked apart." (29)
	- viewing the body as a series of parts, each one with a different beauty score that either aid or hinder the beauty of the body as a whole. Rather than viewing hands as amazingly dextrous, able to create, gesture, write - as too wrinkly, nails that are the wrong shape, disturbing hair on the knuckles... regarding the body not for what it can do, but rather for how it can be seen.
	
- Laura Mulvey argued the essence of a woman could be described as "to-be-looked-at-ness." (Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema)
	- "Women then stands in a patriarchal culture as signifier for the male other, bound by a symbolic order in which man can live out his phantasies and obsessions through linguistic command by imposing them on the silent image of woman still tied to her place as bearer of meaning, not maker of meaning." (Mulvey, 804)
	- "In a world ordered by sexual imbalance, pleasure in looking has been split between active/male and passive/female. The determinding male gaze projects its fantasy onto the female figure. In their traditional exhibitionist role, women are simulaneously looked at and displayed, with their appearance coded for strong visual and erotic impact so that they can be said to connote *to-be-looked-at-ness.*" (Mulvey, 811)
		- and over time women themselves have internalized this male gaze - Margaret Atwood "You are a woman with a man inside watching a woman. You are your own voyeur." (The Robber Bride)
- In a sample of several hundred eighteen and nineteen year old women around the US, Elgeln conducted an online survey where over 40% of these young women said they "frequently" or "almost always" felt like someone was evaluating their appearance. "They felt on display... this feeling isn't a sign of neurosis or paranoia; it just signals that a girl or woman is paying attention to the world around her and being affected by the lessons she learns about her body." (44)

